# Project Management (or lack thereof).
### Oct, 25th. 2024
Usually when managing projects, no matter the discipline, there are growing pains to be had. With smaller projects you can get away with a basic git repository, or maybe a paper binder. But once a project starts growing it can, and will, expose whatever flaws you have in your system.
This happens to be a dangerous issue in terms of motivation, as a loss in organization can rapidly create a downward spiral, where the project you were once passionate about becomes a chore, or worse; forgotten.

---
##### *The pit:*
One of my greatest struggles in trying to do any new project, is getting a huge motivation burst (maybe an excitement rush?) and slowly watches as it drifts into the pit of forgotten projects. Just like a sunflower seed being chewed up, split apart, and spit out; projects can fall into the same pattern. For me this is reflected as forgotten folders on my hard drive, or maybe abandoned GitHub repositories, or even physical boards and creations pushed aside into a container "for a later day". 

Subconsciously, I believe we have a tendency to be drawn into this hellish cycle, where the stack of what should have been exciting (or maybe needed to be done) can be seen rotting away.

---
##### *The solution?*
I honestly don't know what it is for me, and I sure don't think there is a universal one. Maybe we need to start looking at the rotted projects and thinking forward, saying "What can this do for me today, that it couldn't do for me {X} ago?"... Or maybe consistent pacing; allowing it to become a habitual part of the day, waking up and saying "I'll patch {X} bug" or "I can do {X} thing" instead of trying to do it all at once. Or maybe accountability is the solution, working in a team where the motivation feeds off one another, creating this monster of drive and motivation (and hopefully skill). Or maybe the solution all along is to start rambling in a markdown file at 1am.

The best way to learn is to simply try, especially in the realm of software development or engineering. The people who formed our field didn't do so overnight, nor did they do it without losing motivation and having to step back. Persistence is a skill I'm still working on, and it's not close to being done, and who's to say it'll ever be.

"Thirty-thousand thoughts have been wasted, Never in my time to return" - Texarkana - R.E.M - *Out of Time* (1991)